---
layout: post
title: "About Chaimtime"
subtitle: "The Site"
Date: 2016-06-27
author: Chaim
category: Management
tags: Jekyll Ruby Speed Scripting 
finished: false
---


# About Me


My name is Chaim Cohen [Pronunciation: Silent C, rhymes with Time], hence the name Chaimtime. By day I am an awesome computer science teacher, teaching students
how awesome programming and computers really are. When I'm not getting paid, I've been focusing on
computer security, internet of things, educational technology, and parenting. 

# The Site

What really started this was the fact I couldn't get a TLS certificate on my current hosting plan. If you believe the conspiracy theory, since they sold
TLS certs, they wouldn't integrate with [Let's Encrypt]. I also was being charged way too much by my old host. I really just wanted a landing page, with the
ability to blog every once in a while. Here were my requirements.

- Speed - Being able to write and publish a post fast
- Security - I'm tired of trying to secure wordpress
- Load Times- Black text on a white background shouldn't take that long to load
- Learning - I want to learn how all of this works.
	
I don't know why [Jekyll] jumped out at me. I was about to modify my old wordpress site, and call it a day. I guess I saw how fast it loaded, and figured
I could do this as well.


I heavily edited [Nice Blog] theme. Jekyll does not have a ton of themes to choose from. They were either too plain, or too blog heavy. 

# Hosting

My requirement for hosting was that I needed to host multiple sites. I run other sites for family members, and they needed a place. Total, all of my websites
maybe gets 20 hits a day. The problem is that hosting multiple websites puts you in the "expensive" tier of hosting plans. I really wished I could host the site on 
my home server. My friend Tom mentioned [Digital Ocean]. For $5 month, I got everything I needed, plus fantastic tutorials and learning experiences.

# Favicon
The favicon was created by a student of mine, Tracy Fong. Every day after AP testing, she would draw that picture and color in
the shirt that I was wearing.


[Jekyll]: <https://jekyllrb.com>
[Let's Encrypt]: <https://letsencrypt.org>
[Nice Blog]: <http://jekyllthemes.org/themes/nice-blog/>
[Digital Ocean]: <https://m.do.co/c/d213df149b40>
 
